Add docs for secure input (#463)
apify/apify-docs: content/docs/actors/development/secret_input.md

---
title: Secret input

> description: Learn about making some input fields secret and encrypted.

Reviewer: You get $1,000,000 if you make the meta description 120-160 characters (good for SEO)

paths:
# NOTE: IF ADDING A NEW PATH, LEAVE THE OLD ONES FOR REDIRECTS

>     - actor/secret-input
>     - actors/secret-input
>     - actor/development/secret-input
>     - actors/development/secret-input

Reviewer: These paths are for redirects, so since this is a new article, no need for them
```suggestion
    - actors/development/secret-input
```

---

# [](#secret-input)Secret input

> The Secret Input feature allows you to make an input field secret, causing it to be stored encrypted when setting the actor input, and decrypted only inside the actor.

Reviewer: Prolly no need for the caps here. Also a lil readability suggestion, but just a suggestion 
```suggestion
The secret input feature allows you to encrypt sensitive actor inputs such as API keys and passwords. The input is then decrypted inside the actor.
```

Author: I wanted to be explicit here, to say when does the encryption and decryption happen. But I'll adjust it a bit.

## Setting an input field as secret

> To make an input field secret, just set `"isSecret": true` to the field in the actor's [input schema]({{@link actors/development/input_schema.md}}), like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make an input field secret, just add a `"isSecret": true` setting to the input field in the actor's [input schema]({{@link actors/development/input_schema.md}}), like this:
```

<!-- eslint-skip -->
```json
{
    // ...
    "properties": {
        // ...
        "password": {
            "title": "Password",
            "type": "string",
            "description": "A secret, encrypted input field",
            "editor": "textfield",
            "isSecret": true
        },
        // ...
    },
    // ...
}
```

The editor for this input field will then turn into a secret input, and when you edit the field value, it will be stored encrypted.
<img src="{{@asset actors/development/images/secret-input-editor.webp}}" alt="Secret input editor" style="width: 100%; max-width: 822px;"/>

This is only available for `string` inputs, and the editor type is limited to `textfield` or `textarea`.

## Reading secret input fields

> When you read the actor input through `Actor.getInput()`, the encrypted fields are automatically decrypted, without any additional code needed (starting with the [`apify` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/apify) version 3.1.0).

Reviewer: Is this also available in Crawlee? `apify` is the Apify SDK, right?

Author: It's not in Crawlee, because that gets the actor input through the Apify SDK. I didn't want to put Apify SDK here, since in the Apify SDK for Python, this will be available right from the start (and it will probably start at version 1, and have different versioning than the JS SDK).

{
    username: 'username',
    password: 'ENCRYPTED_VALUE:Hw/uqRMRNHmxXYYDJCyaQX6xcwUnVYQnH4fWIlKZL2Vhtq1rZmtoGXQSnhIXmF58+DjKlMZpTlK2zN3YUXk1ylzU6LfXyysOG/PISAfwm27FUgy3IfdgMyQggQ4MydLzdlzefX0mPRyixBviRcFhRTC+K7nK9lkATt3wJpj91YAZm104ZYkcd5KmsU2JX39vxN0A0lX53NjIenzs3wYPaPYLdjKIe+nqG9fHlL7kALyi7Htpy91ZgnQJ1s9saJRkKfWXvmLYIo5db69zU9dGCeJzUc0ca154O+KYYP7QTebJxqZNQsC8EH6sVMQU3W0qYKjuN8fUm1fRzyw/kKFacQ==:VfQd2ZbUt3S0RZ2ciywEWYVBbTTZOTiy'
}
```

## Encryption mechanism

The encryption mechanism used for encrypting the secret input fields is the same dual encryption as in [PGP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretty_Good_Privacy#/media/File:PGP_diagram.svg).

The secret input field is encrypted using a random key, using the `aes-256-gcm` cipher, and then the key is encrypted using a 2048-bit RSA key.
The RSA key is unique for every user and actor combination, so no actor can decrypt input meant for other actor run of the same user, and no user can decrypt input of actor runs of a different user, but same actor.

The decryption keys are passed to the actor runs as environment variables, so the input decryption happens only inside of the actor run.

## Example actor

> If you want to test the secret input live, check out the [Example Secret Input](https://console.apify.com/actors/O3S2UlSKzkcnFHRRA) actor in the Apify Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to test the secret input live, check out the [Example Secret Input](https://console.apify.com/actors/O3S2UlSKzkcnFHRRA) actor in Apify Console.
```

Author: Ach jo
